Hello, my name is Oleksandr Paraska.
I work at Eyeo GmbH. It's a company
behind the popular browser extension AdBlock Plus.
I will present the use cases for machine learning
that we have encountered while working
on a problem of content filtering on the web.
Slide one. One of the motivations
that we have behind this presentation
is to argue that our use case
should be represented within Web Neural Networks API.
I hope this will be useful for W3C group,
and I hope we can have a discussion after that sometime.
slide-2
Slide two. So before I start,
I quickly wanted to maybe give a short overview
how content filtering on the web works now,
and then where does the machine learning
fit in into that scenario?
So right now, there is a community of filter list authors
who craft these filter lists, filter rules
that define what needs to be blocked on the web.
And then there is a separate software
that downloads those filter rules.
And then when the user uses the software
to browse the internet,
only the filtered content is rendered.
Essentially, there are two ways
you can block content on the web.
There is a network level blocking,
and there is DOM level blocking I would say.
Network level blocking is essentially
a URL classification problem,
where you have a list of URLs,
maybe with some metadata for each URL.
And then you want to understand
if the specific URL should be blocked or not.
And the key point here that I wanted to bring up
is that the network level blocking
is not the use case that we see
for Web Neural Networks API.
So we would like to talk only about DOM level blocking.
We have an experiment with network level blocking
with using machine learning,
but what we found out is that
it's at least 50 times slower
than our current implementations.
And also it's not clear
if there are any benefits of using it.
So that's why we want to focus only on DOM level blocking.
That being said, there is already
implementation of machine learning for a similar technique.
And then Safari Intelligent Protection
is probably the best and the most widely used
implementation of machine learning content filtering.
So that's something that is definitely of interest for us.
slide-3
Slide three. So about content blocking on the web,
there is a DOM level ad blocking,
and that means that when you have a network request,
which delivers both an ad and content,
you cannot just block the network request
because you will also block the content.
Obviously, you have to deal with the ad
then on the higher level, on a DOM level,
and there you have multiple options.
You can either apply a CSS selector
to hide the specific element,
or you can run some JavaScript code
so that you can identify which element to hide.
And then as the escalation of advertisers
and ad-blockers continued,
it became clear
that just CSS selectors are often not enough,
and you have to move up your game
for JavaScript code further and further.
So recently, we have deployed the machine learning model
that is running on some websites to look at advertising.
So that's why we wanted to talk about
our use case for Web Neural Networks API.
Essentially, at the DOM level,
ad blocking means that you need to
find relevant features on the website,
and you need to classify
which elements need to be hidden
based on those features.
And then you have the regular features in the HTML world,
which are class names, IDs, and so on.
But machine learning brings you a more powerful language
to classify elements.
And I wanted to bring up at least two more ways
we can classify elements with machine learning.
slide-4
Slide four. So the most obvious way to classify elements
once you have machine learning
is the perceptual way,
where the reason, the evolution in machine learning
gave us more tools and understanding
that we are now are able to target elements
based on how they look, not by their metadata.
And so that means that you can just look at the image
and maybe predict if there's something
that is an ad or not an ad.
And we have implemented similar algorithm
to work in our extension.
We didn't use machine learning for that.
We only used the perceptual hashing.
And perceptual hashing essentially is a technique
that will give you a similar hash
to images that look similar.
And we have discovered that yes, it works
and most websites that we want to apply this,
the inventory of ad images is fairly limited.
So we can list all the images or all the hashes,
and we can apply these filters.
However, we stumbled upon a problem
where there is a canvas tainting issue
where we are not able to have
access to raw data of the images
if the website owner does not allow us
to have access.
That's only an issue in Chrome,
but it's still a big issue.
In Firefox, we have a way around it.
And so the question now is
should there be something
in Web Neural Networks API or in general
that allows machine learning models
to run on these images that are maybe tainted,
but if the model does not produce or leaks any information
to the user, then maybe that should be fine.
And that's just the question I wanted to raise,
and maybe we can discuss it moving forward.
And then I would like to briefly
go into the second kind of features
that you could use for the element hiding on the web,
and that is structural features.
And the reason why we want to use structural features
is because the image they show here,
it's an image from the paper Percival
where they have instrumented the Chromium browser
to run an inference on every image
that is being rendered by the rendering pipeline.
And they are essentially classifying every image
in the rendering pipeline, and that seems to work.
But what you clearly can see from the paper
is that it's not possible to just specify
based on image data alone,
because same image can be both an ad,
and not an ad based on the context.
So you need to have some context,
which means you have to have structural data around it.
And that's the second kind of features
that you would want to use, the structural data.
slide-5
Slide five. Structural data is important
because it can be used as a feature of its own.
For example, on one of the social networks you have,
you can see how the sponsored label
is being rendered by
a whole bunch of spans and obfuscations,
which are essentially impossible
to pinpoint using the CSS selectors.
So you have to use some other clever techniques.
One of the techniques that you can use
is that you can build a graph of this element
of the whole post I would say,
and then build a graph of a ad or not an ad.
And then you will have, you will-
to be able to classify if something is an ad,
just purely based on the structure,
because hopefully non ads
would not have this obfuscation built in,
or there would be other features
that structurally are different.
And that's maybe the key insight
that we wanted to communicate here
that structural information
and running machine learning models
on structural information is very useful in general.
And also it's very useful for
our purposes of content filtering in the web.
slide-6
The way we see structural information here
is that each DOM is a tree,
so we can represent it as adjacent symmetrics.
So you can see that here,
for example, a <div> is moved to a top of the tree
and then you have the leaves there as <p> and <h1>.
And then because you represented the structure
as adjacent symmetrics,
it also can represent the features of each node
as a separate metrics, a feature metrics.
So for example, a <div> is number 29 in our use case.
So then we say that 29 is something
that you want to have here
as the feature for first element,
and so on and so on.
So you can imagine that type of an element,
is only one kind of a feature.
You can have as many features as you want.
And the more features that you have,
the probably the slower the algorithm will be,
but essentially that gives you
a lot of power to target these specific elements.
So once you are able to work
with the data like this, you are able to either,
solve a graph isomorphism problems,
or you are able to solve node classification problems.
And those are the two things that graph convolution networks
are particularly good at.
And that those are the things
that we are already experimenting with.
So we have a code that is in our extension already
that we are able to run,
that is already used in a built-in machine learning model
to classify ads on the social networks,
or based on purely  structural data.
slide-7
And on slide seven, I wanted to also communicate
that it's not just us who work on these structural problems.
There is a recent paper of AdGraph
that is looking for a very similar thing.
There they are using an instrumented
Chromium browser to produce graphs.
And then they are classifying those graphs
based on the custom extracted features.
So maybe in this case,
they're not using the graph convolution networks,
but the problem of running machine learning on graphs
on the web is a very, very fruitful one.
And that's what we wanted to communicate
in this presentation.
slide-8
And on slide eight, I wanted to maybe finalize
by saying that it's very fruitful
to work at the DOM as a graph.
However, it's not a static graph, it's a dynamic graph
because every mutation of an element
changes that graph.
So it's also useful to look at
the filtering of those mutation
as a machine learning problem,
or maybe to look at the whole problem
as a problem of dynamic graph classification.
And in that case, we wanted to see
if there are any other techniques
that the community would like
to embed into Web Neural Networks API.
Then I also wanted to say that
we already have this code running,
and then if you're interested to have a look,
we have a model, a picture and model there,
and also the code that we're using there.
And lastly, I wanted to say that,
as I started with that,
everything starts with the community of people
who write the filter lists.
And we certainly want to ensure
that the community of people as always
is also able to maintain the models.
So for that, we are very interested
in federated learning problems and
how they relate to Web Neural Networks.
And we have experimented with TFJS a little bit,
but we wanted to understand
how Web Neural Networks API
would interact with federated learning problems.
And on that, I will end.
slide-9
Thank you very much.